>> Erik Reinert: So now, what I'm going
to do is I'm going to make another module
called Network.
Now we are going into the networking
part of the Terraform.
What we're going to do is we're going
to go into the network directory and
we're going to create
Our1stMain TF in that directory.
I'm going to copy it from my notes and
I'm going to paste in two resources and
then I'm going to explain
to you what they do.
Okay, so I have a main TF file and
I have two modules actually
inside of this file.
Now what is one thing that might stand out
really quickly about this is that I am
using purely modules here.
So I'm not using any kind
of bare resources directly.
I'm immediately relying on somebody or
some other community that has built
networks on Amazon and I'm using their
module to create my own network.
That's the takeaway I want you to have
here, which is I didn't want to have to
create a production ready, highly scalable
network and I don't want you to either.
You can let others handle those complex
and complicated problems for you.
That's the beauty of open source.
What I ended up doing was using one of
those modules from one of the modules
I showed you earlier.
So if you remember when
I went to the registry,
I showed you the Terraform VPC module.
Well, we're actually using that module.
This is a live example of us using
effectively again a community
driven project to be able to create
all of our networking in Amazon.
However, what is equally annoying
about creating Networking,
figuring out CIDRs and
network address spaces.
How many of you can actually
calculate CIDRs and
know all of that stuff in your head?
I can't either.
I knew it at one point when I was much
younger and I had a much better memory.
But the reality of it is also
when you create these networks,
you have to figure out how much
address space per subnet you want,
how many IP addresses you want to be
able to provision in those spaces.
It's just a pain,
it really is just a pain,
there are nice modules out there
that don't even do resources.
They can do things like help calculate
things and all that kind of stuff.
Hashicorp provides a module which
will actually create networks for
you based off of a base CIDR block and
then the subnets and
their availability zones and
stuff like that.
Basically what I'm doing, and
I'll go into a little bit more detail
in it, is I'm using first a open
source module to Calculate all of
the CIDR addresses for my subnets.
This is also per availability zone.
So this is actually a really complex and
annoying operation.
But I'm letting Terraform do this for
me so that if I give it a different CIDR,
maybe I do 192 in one cluster, but
then I do like 10.0 in another cluster.
I don't have to worry about it in the
sense that I still know I'll get the same
65,000 IP addresses address spaces.
But it will know how to either
take a 192 versus a 10 and
then calculate that for me.
So it makes it a lot easier to set up
these networks because all I really have
to think about is do I want it 10.0,
do I want it 192, do I want it 172?
And then tell it the Availability zones
that I effectively want it to be in and
then it will calculate the rest for me.
Once we have all of our subnets and
all of our CIDR blocks,
the next thing we do is we
create the actual VPC itself.
Now this module going
back to the whole 200 and
something resources that we'll be
creating today, it's not as bad as
it seems because this one module
will probably create 50 resources.
That's the beauty of these modules is they
really do take care of the grunt work of
setting up all the low level
stuff that's really annoying that
you don't want to have to do.
And it does take care of a lot of again,
that tedious creation of
multiple resources and whatnot.
All I have to do is tell it which
Availability zones I want it to be in.
What's the CIDR address?
Everybody knows what a CIDR is,
by the way, what I mean by the term cidr?
No?
Okay, all right.
A CIDR address, just super,
super fast is the actual
network address space
that you want to own.
So for example, if I did 10.0.0.0 16,
then that means that I will have is it
65,000 IP addresses or whatever.
But really what it means
is that anything in
10.0.00 I think, or is it yeah, zero to,
I don't remember the exact 10 dot
like 100 I think is what it is.
0.0.0 is all available to me.
It could go beyond that.
But the only thing I want you to take away
here is that this translates into telling
how much addresses you can
have from here to here.
That's what a CIDR does.
What I can do is once I have this address,
I can calculate and
say, okay, I want the database
network to be 10.50.0.0 and
then I want the containers
to be on 7.5.0.0.
But it allows me to say there's a base
network that I want everything
to be in this huge space.
And then I can take that and say, okay,
now I want this much space to go here,
I want this much space to go there.
And that's what that module does.
The module basically does all
of that calculating for me.
There is one thing that I don't have
here yet, which I'll go ahead and
add now just so that you can see it.
So we're going to do,
we're going to create a locals TF file and
then inside of this file we're going
to add what are called octets.
Again, if you don't know networking, you
don't understand CIDR classifications or
any of that stuff,
then seeing these five numbers may really
confuse you onto how you calculate things.
But effectively what these
numbers mean is how many
addresses I want in each address space.
So if I go again, I'm not trying to
go super deep into networking, but
to give an understanding here, basically
these two files combined do the following.
The first is we tell or
we define how many addresses we want
in each address space using the octet for
that value.
So I think six, I think six is
basically like 1,024 addresses.
And then, I think 5 is like 256 or
something like that,
and I think three is like 10, right?
So as you go lower you get less addresses,
whereas if you go higher,
you get more addresses, right?
And so
what I'm doing is I'm purposely saying,
well or no, it's the opposite, I think.
Yeah, it's the opposite, yeah, sorry.
So database will have like 100
addresses because it's a higher value.
But then when we go lower, private.
Private will have like 20,000
addresses available to it.
And the reason why we do that is because
I'm not going to provision 20,000
databases, right?
So why allocate so
much space to that subnet?
I don't need to, right?
I'd rather have more
space in other places.
And so I can say, okay,
database, you get 100 IPs.
Elasticache, you get 100 IPs.
Intra, you get maybe more.
Because that's like a private,
complete, isolated space.
But then private, we know we're
going to use private all the time.
Private is pretty much where
everything's going to exist.
So let's give that again,
10,000, 20,000 IP addresses or
whatever somebody smarter than me can
remember or look at these numbers and
immediately know what they
actually calculate to.
But that's the easiest, that's the only
takeaway I want you to take away from
this, is that these are octets and the
lower the value, the more IP addresses and
the higher the value,
the less IP addresses.
We take those octets and we use this
module here to off of the CIDR that
we provide it calculate per Availability
zone for each subnet, those spaces.
So down here, when you look at
the VPC module, you'll see that I have
database subnets, I have elasticache
subnets, I have interest subnets,
I have private subnets, I have public
subnets, I have all of these subnets.
That's why we're using
this module up here.
Because if you look closely,
you'll see that for
AZ in Availability zones,
module subnets, network CIDR blocks.
Get the CIDR block for
the Availability zone, that subnet and
that Availability zone.
Yeah,
>> Speaker 2: it's dividing your address
space into subnets.
Is that just a custom best practice?
>> Erik Reinert: So I think why
they do this here is because, for
starters, they expect you to use
Amazon for multiple things, so
they're trying to support
multiple solutions and
I think simultaneously they're just trying
to create good standards and practices.
Most applications have a database space,
most applications have a private
network versus a public network.
You don't have to use all of these,
you don't have to use any of these
if you don't really want to.
But I normally just use these because
I end up pretty much using all of them
anyways.
>> Speaker 3: I suppose it's a way to
manage permissions between things too.
>> Erik Reinert: Absolutely, yeah, yeah.
So you can say like, I want a security
group in the database network
that does only allow from
the private network and
then blocks everything from the public
network or the public subnets.
Yeah, absolutely, yeah.
So it's just, there's no rhyme or
reason really to it, except for
it's just looking at how others
have provisioned stuff and
going they're probably
going to have databases.
If they're running rds, they probably want
their own database subnets for databases,
like you said, to then isolate and
protect where they need.
Yeah, absolutely.
But yeah, again, you don't have
to feel like you have to do this.
The reason why I'm doing it is because we
are in the plan for the future phase, so
why not make sure we've got more
than enough address space for
everything that we're trying to do, right?
And one of the ones that I actually
really like out of this is the intra one.
Can anyone guess what the intra one does?
I actually said it earlier, but can
anyone guess what the intra network does?
If you remember,
we don't really use it as much anymore,
but we used to have Internets and
then intranets, right?
An intranet is a network that's
completely isolated from everything,
there's no network connectivity,
it's completely managed by you.
And so, you get an intranet or
an intra set of subnets with this
module as well, that is,
what's the word I'm looking for?
When it's completely offline,
there's no connectivity to the Internet or
anything outside of it at all.
Black boxed, is that what it's called?
I forget the word
somebody in chat will be.
Yeah, it's isolated, basically.
Thank you, Whisper.
Yeah, so for example, if you needed
subnets that did not connect to
the Internet at all to
run specific workloads,
then you would put them in the intra
network and then you could guarantee that
nothing can connect to those workloads and
they're completely separated.
So I do like that they add
that just in case of the like.
For example, you could actually put your
databases in the intra network if you
really wanted to, right?
If you're like, I don't want my databases
connected at all to the Internet or
some other services,
you just put them in the intra network and
now they are 100% isolated.
So yeah, you get kind of nice standards
and stuff like that out of these
modules that you would have to
think of yourself basically.